# SMTP

`SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol)` is used to send emails over IP networks. It operates in a client-server model, handling email transmission between clients and mail servers or between SMTP servers. SMTP is typically combined with IMAP or POP3 for email retrieval.

By default, SMTP servers listen on `port 25`, but modern setups use `port 587` with STARTTLS for encryption and authentication. `Port 465 is also used for SSL/TLS-encrypted connections.` Without encryption, SMTP transmits data in plain text, making security measures essential.

SMTP servers prevent spam through authentication mechanisms like ESMTP and SMTP-Auth. The email process involves multiple components:

1. **Mail User Agent (MUA)** – Composes and sends emails.
2. **Mail Submission Agent (MSA)** – Validates emails before forwarding.
3. **Mail Transfer Agent (MTA)** – Routes emails to the recipient’s server.
4. **Mail Delivery Agent (MDA)** – Delivers emails to the recipient's mailbox.

Incorrect SMTP configurations can lead to **`Open Relay Attacks`,** allowing unauthorized email forwarding. Proper authentication and security measures mitigate these risks.

SMTP has two disadvantages inherent to the network protocol.

1. The first is that sending an email using SMTP does not return a
usable delivery confirmation. Although the specifications of the
protocol provide for this type of notification, its formatting is not
specified by default, so that usually only an English-language error
message, including the header of the undelivered message, is returned.
2. Users are not authenticated when a connection is established, and the sender of an email is therefore unreliable. As a result, open SMTP
relays are often misused to send spam en masse. The originators use
arbitrary fake sender addresses for this purpose to not be traced (mail
spoofing). Today, many different security techniques are used to prevent the misuse of SMTP servers. For example, suspicious emails are rejected or moved to quarantine (spam folder). For example, responsible for this are the identification protocol [DomainKeys](http://dkim.org/) (`DKIM`), the [Sender Policy Framework](https://dmarcian.com/what-is-spf/) (`SPF`).

For this purpose, an extension for SMTP has been developed called `Extended SMTP` (`ESMTP`). When people talk about SMTP in general, they usually mean ESMTP. ESMTP uses TLS, which is done after the `EHLO` command by sending `STARTTLS`.
 This initializes the SSL-protected SMTP connection, and from this 
moment on, the entire connection is encrypted, and therefore more or 
less secure. Now [AUTH PLAIN](https://www.samlogic.net/articles/smtp-commands-reference-auth.htm) extension for authentication can also be used safely.

## SMTP Commands

The sending and communication are also done by special commands that cause the SMTP server to do what the user requires.

| **Command** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| `AUTH PLAIN` | AUTH is a service extension used to authenticate the client. |
| `HELO` | The client logs in with its computer name and thus starts the session. |
| `MAIL FROM` | The client names the email sender. |
| `RCPT TO` | The client names the email recipient. |
| `DATA` | The client initiates the transmission of the email. |
| `RSET` | The client aborts the initiated transmission but keeps the connection between client and server. |
| `VRFY` | The client checks if a mailbox is available for message transfer. |
| `EXPN` | The client also checks if a mailbox is available for messaging with this command. |
| `NOOP` | The client requests a response from the server to prevent disconnection due to time-out. |
| `QUIT` | The client terminates the session. |

## **Telnet - HELO/EHLO**

To interact with the SMTP server, we can use the `telnet` tool to initialize a TCP connection with the SMTP server. The actual initialization of the session is done with the command mentioned above, `HELO` or `EHLO`.

```bash
pr0xypirate@htb[/htb]$ telnet 10.129.14.128 25

Trying 10.129.14.128...
Connected to 10.129.14.128.
Escape character is '^]'.
220 ESMTP Server 

HELO mail1.inlanefreight.htb

250 mail1.inlanefreight.htb

EHLO mail1

250-mail1.inlanefreight.htb
250-PIPELINING
250-SIZE 10240000
250-ETRN
250-ENHANCEDSTATUSCODES
250-8BITMIME
250-DSN
250-SMTPUTF8
250 CHUNKING
```

## **Telnet - VRFY**

The command `VRFY` can be used to enumerate existing users on
 the system. However, this does not always work. Depending on how the 
SMTP server is configured, the SMTP server may issue `code 252` and confirm the existence of a user that does not exist on the system. A list of all SMTP response codes can be found [here](https://serversmtp.com/smtp-error/).

```bash
pr0xypirate@htb[/htb]$ telnet 10.129.14.128 25

Trying 10.129.14.128...
Connected to 10.129.14.128.
Escape character is '^]'.
220 ESMTP Server 

VRFY root
252 2.0.0 root

VRFY cry0l1t3
252 2.0.0 cry0l1t3

VRFY testuser
252 2.0.0 testuser

VRFY aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
252 2.0.0 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
```

## Dangerous Settings

To prevent the sent emails from being filtered by spam filters and 
not reaching the recipient, the sender can use a relay server that the 
recipient trusts. It is an SMTP server that is known and verified by all
 others. As a rule, the sender must authenticate himself to the relay 
server before using it.

Often, administrators have no overview of which IP ranges they have 
to allow. This results in a misconfiguration of the SMTP server that we 
will still often find in external and internal penetration tests. 
Therefore, they allow all IP addresses not to cause errors in the email 
traffic and thus not to disturb or unintentionally interrupt the 
communication with potential and current customers.

### Open Relay Configuration

SMTP

With this setting SMTP server can send fake emails and thus initialize communication between multiple parties. Another attack possibility would be to spoof the email and read it.

```
mynetworks = 0.0.0.0/0
```

## **Footprinting the Service**

### Nmap

we can also use the [smtp-open-relay](https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/smtp-open-relay.html) NSE script to identify the target SMTP server as an open relay using 16 different tests. If we also print out the output of the scan in detail, we will also be able to see which tests the script is running.
[https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/smtp-open-relay.html](https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/smtp-open-relay.html)

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.14.128 -p25 --script smtp-open-relay -v
```

### smtp-user-enum for recipiants enumeration

```bash
smtp-user-enum -M VRFY -U mailusers.txt -t 10.129.143.72 -w 12 -v
```