# MySQL

`MySQL` is an open-source SQL relational database management system developed and supported by Oracle. The data is stored in tables with different columns, rows, and data 
types. These databases are often stored in a single file with the file 
extension `.sql`, for example, like `wordpress.sql`. 

`MariaDB` is often connected with MySQL, is a fork of the original MySQL code.

Usually, the MySQL server runs on `TCP port 3306`, and we can scan this port with `Nmap` to get more detailed information.

## Dangerous Settings

Many things can be misconfigured with MySQL. We can look in more detail at the [MySQL reference](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html) to determine which options can be made in the server configuration. The main options that are security-relevant are:

| **Settings** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| `user` | Sets which user the MySQL service will run as. |
| `password` | Sets the password for the MySQL user. |
| `admin_address` | The IP address on which to listen for TCP/IP connections on the administrative network interface. |
| `debug` | This variable indicates the current debugging settings |
| `sql_warnings` | This variable controls whether single-row INSERT statements produce an information string if warnings occur. |
| `secure_file_priv` | This variable is used to limit the effect of data import and export operations. |

The settings `user`, `password`, and `admin_address`
 are security-relevant because the entries are made in plain text. 
Often, the rights for the configuration file of the MySQL server are not
 assigned correctly. If we get another way to read files or even a 
shell, we can see the file and the username and password for the MySQL 
server. Suppose there are no other security measures to prevent 
unauthorized access. In that case, the entire database and all the 
existing customers' information, email addresses, passwords, and 
personal data can be viewed and even edited.

The `debug` and `sql_warnings` settings provide 
verbose information output in case of errors, which are essential for 
the administrator but should not be seen by others. This information 
often contains sensitive content, which could be detected by trial and 
error to identify further attack possibilities. These error messages are
 often displayed directly on web applications. Accordingly, the SQL 
injections could be manipulated even to have the MySQL server execute 
system commands. 

## **Footprinting the Service**

### Nmap

```bash
sudo nmap 10.129.14.128 -sV -sC -p3306 --script mysql*
```

### **Interaction with the MySQL Server**

```bash
mysql -u root -h 10.129.14.132
mysql -u root -pP4SSw0rd -h 10.129.14.128

show databases;
select version();
use mysql;
show tables;
```

If we look at the existing databases, we will see several already exist.
 The most important databases for the MySQL server are the `system schema` (`sys`) and `information schema` (`information_schema`).
 The system schema contains tables, information, and metadata necessary 
for management. More about this database can be found in the [reference manual](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/system-schema.html#:~:text=The%20mysql%20schema%20is%20the,used%20for%20other%20operational%20purposes) of MySQL.

### Useful commands

| **Command** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| `mysql -u <user> -p<password> -h <IP address>` | Connect to the MySQL server. There should **not** be a space between the '-p' flag, and the password. |
| `show databases;` | Show all databases. |
| `use <database>;` | Select one of the existing databases. |
| `show tables;` | Show all available tables in the selected database. |
| `show columns from <table>;` | Show all columns in the selected database. |
| `select * from <table>;` | Show everything in the desired table. |
| `select * from <table> where <column> = "<string>";` | Search for needed `string` in the desired table. |