# SNMP

`Simple Network Management Protocol` ([SNMP](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1157))
 was created to monitor network devices. In addition, this protocol can 
also be used to handle configuration tasks and change settings remotely.

SNMP-enabled hardware includes routers, switches, servers, IoT devices, 
and many other devices that can also be queried and controlled using 
this standard protocol. Thus, it is a protocol for monitoring and 
managing network devices. In addition, configuration tasks can be 
handled, and settings can be made remotely using this standard. The 
current version is `SNMPv3`, which increases the security of SNMP in particular, but also the complexity of using this protocol.

In addition to the pure exchange of information, SNMP also transmits control commands using agents over `UDP port 161`.
 The client can set specific values in the device and change options and
 settings with these commands. While in classical communication, it is 
always the client who actively requests information from the server, 
SNMP also enables the use of so-called `traps` over `UDP port 162`.
 These are data packets sent from the SNMP server to the client without 
being explicitly requested. If a device is configured accordingly, an 
SNMP trap is sent to the client once a specific event occurs on the 
server-side.

For the SNMP client and server to exchange the respective values, the
 available SNMP objects must have unique addresses known on both sides. 
This addressing mechanism is an absolute prerequisite for successfully 
transmitting data and network monitoring using SNMP.

## **SNMPv1**

SNMPv1 has `no built-in authentication` mechanism, meaning anyone accessing the network can read and modify network data. Another main flaw of SNMPv1 is that it `does not support encryption`, meaning that all data is sent in plain text and can be easily intercepted.

## **SNMPv2**

a significant problem with the initial execution of the SNMP protocol is that the `community string` that provides security is only transmitted in plain text, meaning it has no built-in encryption.

## **SNMPv3**

The security has been increased enormously for `SNMPv3` by security features such as `authentication` using username and password and transmission `encryption` (via `pre-shared key`) of the data. However, the complexity also increases to the same extent, with significantly more configuration options than `v2c`.

## Dangerous Settings

Some dangerous settings that the administrator can make with SNMP are:

| **Settings** | **Description** |
| --- | --- |
| `rwuser noauth` | Provides access to the full OID tree without authentication. |
| `rwcommunity <community string> <IPv4 address>` | Provides access to the full OID tree regardless of where the requests were sent from. |
| `rwcommunity6 <community string> <IPv6 address>` | Same access as with `rwcommunity` with the difference of using IPv6. |

## **Footprinting the Service**

For footprinting SNMP, we can use tools like `snmpwalk`, `onesixtyone`, and `braa`. `Snmpwalk` is used to query the OIDs with their information. `Onesixtyone`
 can be used to brute-force the names of the community strings since 
they can be named arbitrarily by the administrator. Since these 
community strings can be bound to any source, identifying the existing 
community strings can take quite some time.

### Nmap

```bash
nmap -sU -p 161 -sV --script snmp-info -v 10.129.124.3
```

### **SNMPwalk**

```bash
snmpwalk -v2c -c public 10.129.14.128
```

### **OneSixtyOne**

```bash
onesixtyone -c /opt/useful/seclists/Discovery/SNMP/snmp.txt 10.129.14.128
```

### Braa

```bash
braa <community string>@<IP>:.1.3.6.*   # Syntax
braa public@10.129.14.128:.1.3.6.*
```