# RSync

[Rsync](https://linux.die.net/man/1/rsync) is a fast and efficient tool for locally and remotely copying files. It can be used to copy files locally on a given machine and to/from remote hosts. It is highly versatile and well-known for its delta-transfer algorithm. This algorithm reduces the amount of data transmitted over the network when a version of the file already exists on the destination host. It does this by sending only the differences between the source files and the older version of the files that reside on the destination 
server. It is often used for backups and mirroring. It finds files that need to be transferred by looking at files that have changed in size or the last modified time. By default, it uses `port 873` and can be configured to use SSH for secure file transfers by piggybacking on top of an established SSH server connection.

### **Scanning for Rsync**

```bash
sudo nmap -sV -p 873 127.0.0.1
```

### **Probing for Accessible Shares**

We can next probe the service a bit to see what we can gain access to.

```bash
nc -nv 127.0.0.1 873
```

### **Enumerating an Open Share**

If Rsync is configured to use SSH to transfer files, we could modify our commands to include the `-e ssh` flag, or `-e "ssh -p2222"` if a non-standard port is in use for SSH. This [guide](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/how-to-rsync-over-ssh) is helpful for understanding the syntax for using Rsync over SSH.

```bash
rsync -av --list-only rsync://127.0.0.1/dev
```

## **R-Services**

`R-services` span across the ports `512`, `513`, and `514` and are only accessible through a suite of programs known as `r-commands`. They are most commonly used by commercial operating systems such as Solaris, HP-UX, and AIX.

The [R-commands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_r-commands) suite consists of the following programs:

- rcp (`remote copy`)
- rexec (`remote execution`)
- rlogin (`remote login`)
- rsh (`remote shell`)
- rstat
- ruptime
- rwho (`remote who`)

| **Command** | **Service Daemon** | **Port** | **Transport Protocol** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `rcp` | `rshd` | 514 | TCP | Copy a file or directory bidirectionally from the local system to 
the remote system (or vice versa) or from one remote system to another. 
It works like the `cp` command on Linux but provides `no warning to the user for overwriting existing files on a system`. |
| `rsh` | `rshd` | 514 | TCP | Opens a shell on a remote machine without a login procedure. Relies upon the trusted entries in the `/etc/hosts.equiv` and `.rhosts` files for validation. |
| `rexec` | `rexecd` | 512 | TCP | Enables a user to run shell commands on a remote machine. Requires authentication through the use of a `username` and `password` through an unencrypted network socket. Authentication is overridden by the trusted entries in the `/etc/hosts.equiv` and `.rhosts` files. |
| `rlogin` | `rlogind` | 513 | TCP | Enables a user to log in to a remote host over the network. It works similarly to `telnet` but can only connect to Unix-like hosts. Authentication is overridden by the trusted entries in the `/etc/hosts.equiv` and `.rhosts` files. |

### **/etc/hosts.equiv**

The /etc/hosts.equiv file contains a list of trusted hosts and is used to grant access to other systems on the network. When users on one of these hosts attempt to access the system, they are automatically granted access without further authentication.

The `hosts.equiv` file is recognized as the global configuration regarding all users on a system, whereas `.rhosts` provides a per-user configuration. 

```bash
pr0xypirate@htb[/htb]$ cat /etc/hosts.equiv

# <hostname> <local username>
pwnbox cry0l1t3
```

```bash
pr0xypirate@htb[/htb]$ cat .rhosts

htb-student     10.0.17.5
+               10.0.17.10
+               +
```

Note that the `+ chart` means any IP

### **Scanning for R-Services**

```bash
sudo nmap -sV -p 512,513,514 10.0.17.2
```

### **Logging in Using Rlogin**

```bash
rlogin 10.0.17.2 -l htb-student
```

### **Listing Authenticated Users Using Rwho**

We have successfully logged in under the `htb-student` account on the remote host due to the misconfigurations in the `.rhosts` file. Once successfully logged in, we can also abuse the `rwho` command to list all interactive sessions on the local network by sending requests to the UDP port 513.

```bash
rwho
```

### **Listing Authenticated Users Using Rusers**

To provide additional information in conjunction with `rwho`, we can issue the `rusers`
 command. This will give us a more detailed account of all logged-in 
users over the network, including information such as the username, 
hostname of the accessed machine, TTY that the user is logged in to, the
 date and time the user logged in, the amount of time since the user 
typed on the keyboard, and the remote host they logged in from (if 
applicable).

```bash
rusers -al 10.0.17.5
```